Date: Sat, 4 Jun 2016 23:22:38 -0400
Subject: [five].months.of.words 2o16.o1.o1-2o16.o6.o1: best words edition
From: Aaron Bornstein <aaronmb@alum.mit.edu>
To: Aaron Bornstein <aaron.bornstein@gmail.com>


i suppose the best thing about the narcissism of small differences is that
it only afflicts other people.

*words new to me*:

*inscape*: the unique inner nature of a person or object as shown in a work
of art, especially a poem.


*avuncular*: of or relating to an uncle. [via amy l, who writes:

"used in legal documents to refer to the relationship between a sperm donor
and child -- 'an avuncular relationship'.  there is no term for 'of or
relating to an aunt', so for a woman who has donated an egg, then you have
to say 'aunt-like'."]


*nullipara/nulliparous*: a woman who has never given birth [via amy l]

note: the adjective form only applies to women - as opposed to, say, "never
having given birth to an idea".


*ailurophobe*: a person who is afraid of cats.

*parvenu*: a person of obscure origin who has gained wealth, influence, or
celebrity.

*obnubilate*: to darken, dim, or cover with or as if with a cloud; obscure.
Late 16th c., from Latin obnubilare. [via shervin f]

*rhyparographer*: a person who paints or writes about distasteful subjects.
[via amy l]

*mononymous*: an individual who is known and addressed by a mononym, or
"single name".

*immiseration*: economic impoverishment.

*tatterdemalion*: (adj.) tattered or dilapidated. (n.) a person in tattered
clothing. [via amy l]

*chapeau*: a hat or cap; also used when giving someone respect, as in: i
take my hat off. [via nina r]

*sabot*: a kind of simple shoe, shaped and hollowed out from a single block
of wood, traditionally worn by French and Breton peasants. from which
derives "sabotage", *not *because said shoes were thrown into machinery,
but rather because sabotage originated in intentionally working clumsily,
ploddingly: "giving back to the bosses what they give to us. Sabotage
consists in going slow with the process of production when the bosses go
slow with the same process in regard to wages
<http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=sabotage>."

*nachas*: pride or gratification, especially at the achievements of one's
children.

*sere*: (especially of vegetation) dry or withered.

*pindaric*: a pindaric ode is a poem with set meter and rhyme just like all
other odes. it is defined by three triads: the strophe and the antistrophe
being of the same stanza form and an epode as the final which is different.
this form of ode was named after the writer pindar.

*dithyrambus*: a wild choral hymn of ancient Greece, especially one
dedicated to Dionysus. in modern usage, a passionate or inflated speech,
poem, or other writing.

*armamentarium*: the medicines, equipment, and techniques available to a
medical practitioner. in modern usage, a collection of resources available
for a certain purpose: "the entire armamentarium of electronic
surveillance", "a rich armamentarium of learning algorithms."

*pettifogging*: placing undue emphasis on petty details

*ambuscade*: an ambush. (also verb)

*collops*: a slice of meat.

*nosography*: the systematic description of diseases.

*plinth*: a heavy base supporting a statue or vase.

*seraglio*: the women's apartments (harem) in an ottoman palace.

*allochronic*: occurring in different segments of geologic time.

*schizogenic*: reproducing or formed by fission.

*eudaimonia: *there's some disagreement
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eudaimonia>, but generally: the pursuit of
virtue (as opposed to, say, comfort) as the process of well-being.

*impedimentia*: equipment for an activity or expedition, especially when
considered as bulky or an encumbrance.

*rictus*: a fixed grimace or grin.

*fantan: *1 a chinese gambling game in which players try to guess the
remainder after the banker has divided a number of hidden objects into four
groups. 2 a card game in which players build on sequences of sevens.

*sigil*: an inscribed or painted symbol considered to have magical power.

*kudoclasm*: when lifelong dreams are brought down to earth. [via catherine
l]


*words yet to be*:


*1. when a name can describe a board game, a movie, a TV show (ideally
unrelated to the movie), a beer, and a restaurant. Sarah and I ran into
this with the name "Dominion" which exists in all these forms (albeit as
'Old Dominion' for beer) ~ ben h & sarah d*

[another example: "Houdini" ~ janice c]

suggestions: hipsternym; zappanation
<http://mobile.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/f/frankzappa134155.html>,
iconym, logonym, titularity,
polyppellation

*2. that moment when you see the person you've had a crush on for a while
in a whole new light and suddenly you have no idea what you ever saw in the
person to begin with? even though the ex-crush hasn't changed at all. ~
analucia b*

suggestions: there is a phenomenon called "retrospective revaluation",
sometimes called "backward blocking".

i feel like it could just stop at "backward blocking", but if you want to
get creative with it you could maybe say something like "backward
cock-blocking" or "retrospective disillusion" or "retrospective
friendzoning".

--- -- -

*get words*: http://aaron.bornstein.org/words/
*give words*: aaronmb@alum.mit.edu
